---
title: 'Layout Components'
description: 'TBD'
---

## Introduction

Chakra UI provides components that help you easily layout sections and elements
of your web page or app. We call these components the Layout components.

Let's explore these components and see how they work.

### AspectRatio

The AspectRatio helps you dynamically modify the height of an element to match a
pre-defined width-to-height ratio. For example, a 4:3 ratio would enforce a
width of 400px and a height of 300px to an element. Use AspectRatio when you
want to keep the same width-to-height ratio across all screen sizes e.g to embed
responsive videos and maps.

A rule of thumb is to avoid using fixed width and heights on elements when using
the Aspect ratio.

```tsx path=/App.tsx type=tutorial
import { AspectRatio, ChakraProvider, Image } from '@chakra-ui/react'

export default function App() {
  return (
    <ChakraProvider>
      <AspectRatio maxW='400px' ratio={4 / 3}>
        <Image
          src='https://bit.ly/naruto-sage'
          alt='naruto'
          objectFit='cover'
        />
      </AspectRatio>
    </ChakraProvider>
  )
}
```

### Box

Box is the fundamental component on which all other Chakra UI components are
built. Think of Box like the CSS `div`. It helps you create responsive layouts
with ease.

Whenever you use Box, you can pass in any style props such as `backgroundColor,`
`padding,` `margin,` and more.

You can also compose new components with the Box by using the `as` prop to
override the underlying HTML element.

[Insert sample code for Box]

### Center

When you need to center an element, use the Center component. Center
automatically centers elements placed within it.

[Insert sample code for Center]

In some cases, you may also want to create circle or square frames around
elements like numbers or icons. The Circle and Square components come in handy
here.

[Insert sample code for Circle, Square]

### Container

The Container component allows you to restrict the width of a content so it
doesn't flow past a specific breakpoint. When you use the Container, it
automatically sets the maxWidth of the content to 60 characters (60ch). However,
you can customize the maxWidth by passing custom maxWidth values or by changing
the size tokens defined in theme.sizes. Container.

[Insert sample code for Container]

### Flex

Flex is just like the CSS flexbox. It is a one-dimensional layout pattern that
makes it easy to layout elements on a page. Unlike the traditional flexbox, the
Flex component allows you to pass shorthand CSS props that save you time and
make 'Flexing' delightful.

Examples of shorthand props are, `direction` for `flexDirection`, `basis` for
`flexBasis` and `shrink` for `flexShrink`. Check
https://chakra-ui.com/docs/components/layout/flex for a full list of Flex
shorthand props.

[Insert sample code for Flex]

### Grid

Use Grid when you need to create two-dimensional layouts of rows and columns.

But first, you'll need to wrap each child within it with a GridItem and pass the
required props like `gap` `templateColumns` and/or `templateRows`.

[Insert sample code for Grid]

### SimpleGrid

If you ever struggle with the Grid, the SimpleGrid was made for you. It is a
much easier way of laying out elements in a two-dimensional pattern.

SimpleGrid provides you with two main props, amongst others. The first is
`spacing` is used to define the spacing between each grid item while the second
prop, `columns` specifies the number of columns the Grid should have.

[Insert sample code for SimpleGrid]

### Stack

Stack is the easiest way to achieve one-dimensional layout models with a uniform
space between elements. Using the ' direction ' prop, you can decide to layout
components in the horizontal or vertical direction.

[Insert sample code for Stack]

Stack also provides two custom components: HStack and VStack.

VStack allows you to layout elements in the vertical direction and center its
elements while HStack allows you to layout elements in the horizontal direction
and center its elements.

[Insert sample code for VStack and HStack]

### Wrap

There are scenarios where there isn't enough space for an element to fit in a
row because of its width. When the width of a component extends the screen
width, the Wrap component wraps or moves this element to a new row.

Think of it as a smarter flex-wrap with spacing support. It works really well
with dialog buttons, tags, and chips.

[Insert sample code for Wrap]
